So now let's discuss
the AWS Cloud Adoption Framework also called CAF.
And this is something that is coming up at the exam
and you will have to remember a few things by heart
but hopefully by the end
of this lecture it should start to make sense.
So CAF is basically an ebook.
It's a white paper, and so at such, it's not a service
but the cloud adoption framework will help you
build and then execute a comprehensive plan to
do your digital transformation
through the innovative use of AWS.
So how to leverage a cloud to be transformed.
So it was created by AWS
by the professionals and its best practices
grouping thousands of customers all in one framework.
So the CAF has two components, I would say.
The first one is called organizational capabilities that
could be underpinning successful platform transformations.
And the second one is
that these capabilities are regrouped into six perspectives
and these six perspectives you have to remember
for the exam.
So we have business, people, governance, platform security
and operations, and then we'll go over them a little bit
for you to understand what they're about.
So we can divide them into, two categories.
The first one is the business capability.
And so we have the three pillars.
So we have the business perspective first.
And this business perspective helps ensure
that your cloud investments accelerate your
digital transformation, ambitions and business outcomes.
The people perspective is a second perspective
within the business umbrella, and it serves
as a bridge between technology and business.
Very important to remember for the exam.
This is a question that can be asked of you
and it helps you accelerate the cloud journey to
help organizations more rapidly evolve
to culture of continuous growth, learning
and where change becomes business as normal.
And so through the people you have a focus on culture
organizational structure, leadership and workforce.
And finally we have the governance perspective
which helps you orchestrate your cloud initiatives
while maximizing the organizational benefits
and minimizing transformation related risks.
So business people and governance
with people being the bridge
between technology and business.
And so within each of these perspectives
we have the capabilities.
And so for business
we have capabilities that are related to business.
You don't have to remember them
but it's good to look at them.
So strategy management, portfolio management
innovation management, product management
strategic partnership, data monetization, business insight
and data science.
For people, we have anything with two people.
So culture, evolution, transformational leadership,
cloud fluency, workforce transformation,
change acceleration
organization design and organizational alignment.
And for governance
we have program and project management, benefits management
risk management, cloud financial management
application portfolio management
data governance and data curation.
So that's for the business capabilities.
Regrouped under the three business perspectives
of business, people and governance.
And then we have what's called the technical capabilities.
So the technical capabilities are platform, security
and operations.
And platform helps you build an enterprise grade scalable
hybrid cloud platform to modernize your existing workloads
and to implement new cloud native solutions.
From the security perspective
it helps you achieve the confidentiality
integrity and availability of your data and cloud workloads.
And finally, from an operations perspective
it helps you ensure that your cloud services are delivered
at a level that meets the needs of your business.
So now if you look
at individual capabilities within these perspectives
we have platform security and operations.
So for platform, we have platform architecture
data architecture, platform engineering, data engineering
provisioning and orchestration
modern application development
and continuous integration and continuous delivery.
So for security, we have anything related to security
of course, such as security governance, security assurance
identity and access management, threat detection
vulnerability management, infrastructure position
data protection, application security
and incident response.
And finally, operations is all
around the operations review in the cloud.
So we're talking about observability, event management
incidents and problem management
change and release management, performance
and capacity management, configuration management
patch management, availability and continuity management.
And finally, application management.
So the goal is really when you go
at the exam to really understand what are
the perspectives that regroup these capabilities.
So you definitely have to remember business, people
governance, platform security and operations
because there will be something asked
of you and maybe sometime you will have to
identify a specific capability
and associate it with the correct perspective.
But if you look at the list we just went over
usually it makes sense, what is related to security?
Sounds like security, what is related to business
sounds like business and so on.
Now, there's one last part in this little diagram right here
which is the transformation domain.
So we have technology, process, organization, and products
and that helps you drive business outcomes.
And some questions at the exam can be geared
towards these transformation domains.
So I'm also gonna go over this.
So these four transformation domains.
The first one is technology.
So we use the cloud to migrate
and modernize legacy infrastructure, applications
data and analytics platforms.
For process, we want to be digitizing everything
automating and optimizing your business operations.
That means you want to two things, leverage new data
and analytics platform to create actionable insights
thanks to the cloud.
And using machine learning to improve your customer
service experience.
This is all thanks to the cloud, for organization.
How do you reimagine your operating model?
So for this, we want to reorganize the teams
around the products and the value streams
and you want to leverage agile methods
to rapidly iterate and evolve.
This is something that can be asked
for at the exam as per my experience.
And finally, for products, re-imagining your business model
by creating new value propositions such
as product and services and revenue models.
So all this thanks to the cloud.
Finally, CAF has transformation phases
that you need to know about.
There are four of them.
The first one is envision.
This is when you want to demonstrate how the cloud is
going to accelerate your business outcomes
by identifying transformation opportunities
and create a foundation for your digital transformation.
Then you have the align phase.
This is where you look at the six CAF perspectives
we've seen, and we identify capability gaps
and this will result in an action plan.
Then we have a launch
where we actually build and deliver
pilot initiatives in production and demonstrate
incremental business value, and finally
scale to expand these pilot initiatives with
desired scale while realizing the desired business benefits.
So the exam also is going to ask you
about these four transformation phases.
So be ready to know about them.
It's pretty easy.
Envision is about making sure you have
identified business opportunities.
Then align is to align those to the CAF perspectives
to find gaps and have an action plan.
And then launch and scale are pretty explicit.
So CAF may seem like a very obscure framework
and to be honest, it's something you kinda have to just look
at and follow when you're doing your cloud adoption.
Now, from an exam perspective, again, I want to reassure you
you're going to be asked about the perspectives
and identifying which one is part of the framework or not.
You may be asked to identify
if a capability belongs to a specific perspective.
And finally, you may be asked
about these transformation domains and their phases
but all these things kind of make sense
by elimination when you go through at the exam.
So even if you don't remember by heart what these are
just remember that by using a little bit
of brain power and elimination, you will get there.
Okay, so that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it.
I did my best to explain this framework to you.
And I will see you in the next lecture.